1. The market demand curve for heroin is said to be highly inelastic. Heroin supply is also said to be monopolised by the Mafia, which we assume to be interested in maximising profits. Are these two statements consistent?
Highly inelastic -> A large shift in price will not decrease demand by that much.
Monopolised by the mafia makes sense, as it's not a cartel. They can increase prices as they wish and the demand will stay the same without other competitors, people are reliant on the cartel. 


---
2. The monopolist faces a demand curve given by D(p) = 100 − 2p. Its cost function is c(y) = 2y. What is its optimal level of output and price?

$Q = 100 - 2\cdot p$ 
$p = \frac {100-Q}{2}$ 
$R = p \cdot Q$
$R = 50Q - \frac {q^2}{2}$ 
$MC = 50 - Q$
$MR = 2$
$O = MR = MC$
$50 - Q = 2$
$Q = 48$
$p = \frac {100-48}{2}$ 
$p = 26$ 

---
3. The monopolist faces a demand curve given by D(p) = 10p−3. Its cost function is c(y) = 2y. What is its optimal level of output and price?

$Q = 10p - 3$
$p = \frac {Q - 3} {10}$
$R = p \cdot Q$
$R = \frac {Q - 3} {10} \cdot Q$
$R = \frac {Q^2} {10} - \frac {3Q}{10}$
$MR = \frac {Q} {5} - \frac {3} {10}$
$MC = 2y$
$MC = 2$
$O = MR = MC$
$2 = \frac {Q} {5} - \frac {3} {10}$
$\frac {Q} {5} = 2 + \frac {3} {10}$
$Q = 11.5$
$p = 11.5 - 3 / 10 = 0.85$

---
4. If D(p) = 100/p and c(y) = y^2, what is the optimal level of output of the monopolist? (Be careful.)
---
5. A monopolist with constant marginal cost is producing where |ε| = 3. The government imposes a quantity tax of $6 per unit of output. If the demand curve facing the monopolist is linear, how much does the price rise?
---
6. What is the answer to the above question if the demand curve facing the monopolist has constant elasticity?
---
7. If the demand curve facing the monopolist has a constant elasticity of 2, then what will be the monopolist’s markup on marginal cost?
---
8. The government is considering subsidizing the marginal costs of the monopolist described in the question above. What level of subsidy should the government choose if it wants the monopolist to produce the socially optimal amount of output?
---
9. Show mathematically that a monopolist always sets its price above marginal cost.
---
10. True or false? Imposing a quantity tax on a monopolist will always cause the market price to increase by the amount of the tax.
---
11. What problems face a regulatory agency attempting to force a monopolist to charge the perfectly competitive price?
---
12. What kinds of economic and technological conditions are conducive to the formation of monopolies?
---
